For Deno,
if you actually go to Deno site here,
one of the things that we did not talk
about is they have a really good manual.
If you just go to their manual,
setting up your environment, and
one of the things that Deno provides
the shell auto completions.
So if we look at the CLR here,
I'm back in my terminal.
If I need Deno and then tab,
it shows me all of
the different directories
that might be called Deno.
But if I do space tab,
then it gives me all of the options on
the Deno object that I can actually run.
So these are all the things that you can
pass to Deno, we've been doing Deno run,
but these are all the other
things that you can do.
And these are enabled by the autocomplete,
which you can look and
dots on how to set that up.
For any one of these,
you can pass a help flag too so for
instance, like, let's Deno run---H, and
then it will tell you all of the different
flags that you can pass in here.
It's rapping quite a bit because the text
is so big, but here are the options.
So any one of these items, any one of
these Deno items, you can just pass
that -H2, and it will give you more
information on what you can do there.
There are a lot of options.
I wanna talk about a few of them
that I think are interesting,
but we're not gonna talk about all.
One of the things that Deno
includes is a built in format.
So let's look at it.
So I'm gonna paste some code in here and
I've actually got formatting turned on.
So I'm gonna turn off Toggle formatting.
All right, so I'm gonna save this file.
And you'll notice that this
file has single quotes.
If we were to run Deno
format on this file,
if you watch it's gonna change
the single quotes to double quotes.
I don't know if you just saw
do that pretty quickly there.
This is very similar to prettier
if you've used prettier before.
It's sort of a version of
prettier although it doesn't
uses the D print library.
So the formatting is
a little bit different.
Like for instance, the Deno format
are really likes trailing commas, right?
So if you have a list of items, all right?
So if you have,
like const stuff is an array,
and yet 1, 2, 3.
I can't count 1, 2,
3 like if we format this with Deno,
let's try this see what happens.
It puts a trailing comma, see on the 3,
it just likes trailing commas.
Prettier doesn't do trailing commas.
So there are some differences there.
In VS code to make this easier for
yourself,
there's an extension called formatting
toggle, I think is what it's called.
Yeah.
And what this does is it just toggles on
and off something called format on Save.
And so you can see that down
here in my status bar, it's X.
I'm gonna turn this back
on this toggle formatting.
And then I'm gonna go to my user settings
for a second here and show you something.
So we go, let's get settings Jason.
And then I'm gonna take this off
this default format or line and
then look again at what happens here.
And so we have this file,
it's in fact let's save.
Now if we go to format this file,
so I'm gonna say format document.
It's gonna tell me there's multiple
formatters, which one do you wanna use?
And then we can configure.
Now normally I use prettier but when you
install Deno you now have this additional
format or so
you can choose Deno formatting as well.
I'm gonna choose Deno and
then it adds this line
to the settings file here where it sets
the default format for TypeScript.
Now I think one of the questions
that's worth asking is
why does Deno include a formatter?
And I think the answer is that,
according to Ryan,
at least is that it seems to
be primarily about two things.
One of them is speed.
And so the format is written in rust and
it's quite fast.
In fact,
if we were to come over here to the Deno,
in fact I cloned earlier,
I cloned all of Deno to my local machine.
So if you got a Deno here oops,
let's do Deno.
And then let's look at their
standard library which is here.
This is their entire standard library,
right?
So we could say, Deno format every
file in the standard library,
and it's gonna go through and do that.
It just checked 475 just formatted 400.
No, it didn't make any changes cuz
there might have been formatted,
but it's just significantly faster.
And so that's one of the reasons.
The other reason is I think,
I'm guessing here, but
in current JavaScript and
node projects, you don't get all of
the things that you need to really
have a good project out of the box.
You have to vote on them all on,
one of them is formatting,
you have to vote on prettier.
If you want linting,
you have to vote on eslint.
And Deno is including these
things out of the box.
And so you don't have to add anything to
your project to get that, it just works.
Additionally, Deno will run tests for
you, so it even includes a test runner.
So you can see that it's a much more
comprehensive idea for your projects,
so that you don't end up bolting
a lot of dependencies on is
trying to eliminate those dependencies for
you.
All right, that's the fourth matter,
which is kind of cool.
Let's look at how you pass in
arguments to the Deno COI,
because it's a little bit
important to understand this.
Otherwise you can get confused in a hurry.
And so before I think we were logging out,
let's go back to our,
we're logging out our args here.
Actually, we're just
logging out the first one.
Let's just take this out to look at our
Deno.args, let's just look at all of them.
So if we pass in, so
we can do Deno run app.ts 1,
2, 3, and should return 1, 2, 3.
Now you have to pass the args
after your file name here,
and this is super important.
Now this is not unlike other systems,
but it is especially finicky
when it comes to flags.
So in Deno we've got these like so
before we had these Deno run and
then we did if y'all
remember we did allow read.
And then we did app.ts which this isn't
gonna do anything but there we are.
We didn't pass any parameters in.
But if we had something where we needed
to read so let's console log Deno
current working directory, right,
it's gonna we have to pass the flag in.
That flag has to come
before the app.ts file.
If you pass it after the file like this,
so if you do this, right?
And then you try to pass in allow read,
it's just gonna act like you didn't do it,
right?
And it's very particular about that
some CLI are some art, but just know
that all of your flags have to come before
the file name or they're not gonna work.
So if you're passing a flag and
it's ignoring the flag, check and
make sure that you're passing
it in the right location.
So we've talked about passing in
arguments here, running programs,
we talked about flags, they must be passed
before the name of the file to execute.
There are a lot of different flags that
you're gonna end up passing to Deno,
but there are two that
you're gonna pass a lot.
Again, Deno has so much stuff that's built
in and it's just a lot of fun to use.
For instance, it has a built in watcher so
we can do deno run, watch appt.ts.
Now when I execute this it's
gonna tell me that it can't,
because I also need to
pass in an unstable flag.
So Deno has this idea where Deno is
stable, but a lot of the features in
it are not and it gets around that by
putting them behind an unstable flag.
So in order to use the watch,
we got to say run watch unstable app.ts.
And now it's gonna run
process we didn't allow, but
we can change this out, so
if we change this and said Hello World,
And saved it, it changes and the boom,
Hello World's logged out, right?
And so as you're going along developing,
perhaps you don't wanna have to run it
every time, you can just leave it running.
We'll do this later on when we're
actually building our project to see how
that's helpful.
So that's watching unstable,
you're gonna use those a lot.
The unstable flag you'll use quite a bit,
a lot of stuff is still
behind the unstable flag.
There are a lot of other
flags that we can pass in,
I think just as a summary we're gonna
pass in H in order to get help.
We're going to pass in all
flags before the filename and
we're gonna pass in our own
arguments after the file name.
And that's basically what you
need to know about the Deno COI,
you can explore the different
options on your own.